the Israeli military has announced it
will Implement tactical pauses in its
operation against the militant group
Hamas in a part of Southern Gaza
following October's Terror attacks it
says the 11-hour windows will allow more
humanitarian supplies into the war zone
during daytime hours the Army says the
daily pauses will take place from 8:00
a.m. to 7:00 p.m. until further notice
the aim is to get more trucks through
the caram Shalom crossing the main entry
point for Aid and then onto the Salah
Alin Highway the key North South Road
the United Nations says the amount of
support entering the Gaza Strip is still
not sufficient for the civilian
population shanea low is a
Communications adviser for the Norwegian
Refugee Council how much will this help
longer hours this time and more
notice you know it really is not enough
what we need is a ceasefire in order to
be able to access all parts of Gaza and
a massive surging up of humanitarian
assistance of course having some degree
of access to the caram Shalom Crossing
which Aid agencies have largely been
unable to reach is is one step forward
but there is so much more there is so
much Devastation and destruction and
need in Gaza that Israel needs to be
doing more to allow for Aid to enter and
to provide for the protection of
humanitarians once that Aid is received
to be able to access all parts of Gaza
and distribute Aid to everyone wherever
they are throughout the Enclave when
you're talking about safety of your
staff and drivers how how much do you
trust these
pauses you know the the notification and
deconfliction system has been broken for
for months now in terms of I'm not sure
it ever was actually functional in terms
of providing safety for humanitarians
just last week during the the massive
operation in the middle area Dar in noat
refugee camp uh when Israel extracted
four hostages from Gaza and hundreds of
Palestinians were killed in the process
uh humanitarians were killed during that
that uh operation including a staff
member who worked for one of nrc's
partner organizations humanity and
inclusion she was killed alongside seven
members of her family on top of that
we've seen the destruction of of Aid
facilities including humanit human
humanity and inclusions with Warehouse
last week during the same operation so
allowing Aid agencies to access carum
Shalom Crossing to to finally receive
and take our our uh Goods in our Aid
into the into Gaza is is one step but we
need to ensure that there's safety for
humanitarians and we've seen hundreds of
humanitarians killed over the last eight
and a half months the other point I
wanted to bring up with you was
distribution because a lot of gaza's
roads are already destroyed
it's extremely difficult to to reach
people in need in Gaza there's the
severance between the North of Gaza and
the south of Gaza and difficulties in
terms of travel Aid agency's abilities
to travel between the two there are
difficulties in terms of roads that are
passable uh being able to coordinate
with the Israelis or notify the Israelis
and get confirmation that our convoys
will be safe when they're moving and
then of course we've seen on top of all
of that as the needs continue to grow
day in day out uh people are getting
more and more desperate uh and and
heading to the streets where where AID
convoys are expected to pass making it
difficult for convoys to reach their
destinations and safely distribute to
those who are in need the latest there
from Sha low from the Norwegian Refugee
Council great to have you on DW again